mr-kumar-abhishek | 2017-01-02 01:15:38 UTC | #1

Hi, 

I have just downloaded the Urho 3D from github source code. 

Could some one tell me in steps how to build and install it ?? I have few couple of libraries missing when I ran cmake_rpi.sh from terminal. I have tried to get the binaries first for last 8 hours but gdebi rejected it all saying it i386 architecture.

Any help is appreciated.

-------------------------

weitjong | 2017-01-02 01:15:38 UTC | #2

Which binary did you download? I have tested one from Urho3D 1.6 release and checked that it has the correct architecture and ABI, although I did not personally install the binary to test it.

[code]$ file usr/local/lib/Urho3D/libUrho3D.so.0.0.248 
usr/local/lib/Urho3D/libUrho3D.so.0.0.248: ELF 32-bit LSB shared object, ARM, EABI5 version 1 (SYSV), dynamically linked, BuildID[sha1]=7bcb509136d934562cd19b4fa28f81378418c9fa, stripped[/code]
If you are just getting started, download and install the correct prebuilt binary package is the quickest way to try. After that, learn how to build from source yourself by using the preconfigured RPI sysroot and cross-compiler toolchain (see [urho3d.github.io/documentation/ ... aspberryPi](https://urho3d.github.io/documentation/HEAD/_building.html#Building_RaspberryPi)), i.e. build the software from the convenient of a normal Linux desktop host system and use scp to transfer the binaries to the device for testing. Believe it or not, it is actually much easier than try to figure out how to build the software using the device itself, though it is also supported by our buildsystem.

-------------------------

mr-kumar-abhishek | 2017-01-02 01:15:38 UTC | #3

Hi I got these binaries from here:

[urho3d.github.io/releases/2016/ ... lease.html](https://urho3d.github.io/releases/2016/08/08/urho3d-1.6-release.html)

specifically i tested these with gdebi over raspi


[downloads.sourceforge.net/proje ... IC-v7a.deb](https://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/urho3d/Urho3D/1.6/Urho3D-1.6-Raspberry-Pi-STATIC-v7a.deb)
[downloads.sourceforge.net/proje ... STATIC.deb](https://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/urho3d/Urho3D/1.6/Urho3D-1.6-Raspberry-Pi-STATIC.deb)


[downloads.sourceforge.net/proje ... SHARED.deb](https://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/urho3d/Urho3D/1.6/Urho3D-1.6-Raspberry-Pi-SHARED.deb)

[downloads.sourceforge.net/proje ... ED-v7a.deb](https://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/urho3d/Urho3D/1.6/Urho3D-1.6-Raspberry-Pi-SHARED-v7a.deb)


Please understand that I am installing them over a raspi and not installing them over other machines to build games for arm architecture of raspi

All these were rejected by gdebi.

Thanks for the docs  but I am trying to built it over raspi and not cross compile it from another system.

-------------------------

weitjong | 2017-01-02 01:15:41 UTC | #4

There are two separate issues here. First is the debian package generated by our CI server being rejected. I can confirm that the package metadata is wrong although the binaries are of the correct. That's the reason why they are being rejected by the package manager. I will check that later and fix it. Thanks for pointing this out.

The second issue is how to build the software. The documentation link in my previous post actually has provided answers for both how to do native build and cross-compiling build. I am telling you the easier way to get started, but of course you can do it the hard way too if you incline.

-------------------------

